feat(blog): Concurrent Data-structure Design Walk-Through (#1860)
questdb/questdb.io: blog/2023-08-17-lock-free-map-design-walkthrough.mdx

---
title: "Concurrent Data-structure Design Walk-Through"
author: Jaromir Hamala
author_url: https://twitter.com/jerrinot
author_image_url: https://avatars.githubusercontent.com/u/158619?v=4
description:
  How to design a lock-free data structure? A detective story for curious
  developers.
tags: [datastructures, lock-free, concurrent, performance, questdb]
image: /img/blog/2023-08-17/lockfree-banner.png
slug: concurrent-lockfree-datastructure-design-walkthrough
---

import Screenshot from "@theme/Screenshot"

> > QuestDB is a time-series database that offers fast ingest speeds, ILP and PGWire support and SQL query syntax. QuestDB is composed mostly in Java, and we've learned a lot of difficult and interesting lessons. We're happy to share them with you.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> QuestDB is a time-series database that offers fast ingest speeds, InfluxDB Line Protocol and PGWire support and SQL query syntax. QuestDB is composed mostly in Java, and we've learned a lot of difficult and interesting lessons. We're happy to share them with you.
```
